---
page_title: "dbtcloud_databricks_semantic_layer_credential Resource - dbtcloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Databricks credential resource. This resource is composed of a Databricks credential and a Semantic Layer configuration. It is used to create a Databricks credential for the Semantic Layer.
---

# dbtcloud_databricks_semantic_layer_credential (Resource)


Databricks credential resource. This resource is composed of a Databricks credential and a Semantic Layer configuration. It is used to create a Databricks credential for the Semantic Layer.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "dbtcloud_databricks_semantic_layer_credential" "sl_cred_databricks_example" {
  configuration = {
    project_id      = var.project_id
    name            = "Databricks SL Credential"
    adapter_version = "databricks_v0"
  }
  credential = {
    project_id                 = var.project_id
    catalog                    = var.catalog 
    token                      = var.token
    semantic_layer_credential  = true
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `configuration` (Attributes) Semantic Layer credential configuration details. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--configuration))
- `credential` (Attributes) Databricks credential details, but used in the context of the Semantic Layer. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--credential))

### Read-Only

- `id` (Number) The ID of the credential

<a id="nestedatt--configuration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `configuration`

Required:

- `adapter_version` (String) The adapter version
- `name` (String) The name of the configuration
- `project_id` (Number) The ID of the project


<a id="nestedatt--credential"></a>
### Nested Schema for `credential`

Required:

- `project_id` (Number) Project ID to create the Databricks credential in
- `token` (String, Sensitive) Token for Databricks user

Optional:

- `adapter_type` (String, Deprecated) The type of the adapter. 'spark' is deprecated, but still supported for backwards compatibility. For Spark, please use the spark_credential resource. Optional only when semantic_layer_credential is set to true; otherwise, this field is required.
- `catalog` (String) The catalog where to create models (only for the databricks adapter)
- `schema` (String) The schema where to create models. Optional only when semantic_layer_credential is set to true; otherwise, this field is required.
- `semantic_layer_credential` (Boolean) This field indicates that the credential is used as part of the Semantic Layer configuration. It is used to create a Databricks credential for the Semantic Layer.
- `target_name` (String, Deprecated) Target name

Read-Only:

- `credential_id` (Number) The system Databricks credential ID
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource. Contains the project ID and the credential ID.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# using import blocks (requires Terraform >= 1.5)
import {
  to = dbtcloud_databricks_semantic_layer_credential.example
  id = "credential_id"
}

import {
  to = dbtcloud_databricks_semantic_layer_credential.example
  id = "12345"
}

# using the older import command
terraform import dbtcloud_databricks_semantic_layer_credential.example "credential_id"
terraform import dbtcloud_databricks_semantic_layer_credential.example 12345
```
