---
page_title: "dbtcloud_postgres_semantic_layer_credential Resource - dbtcloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Postgres credential resource. This resource is composed of a Postgres credential and a Semantic Layer configuration. It is used to create a Postgres credential for the Semantic Layer.
---

# dbtcloud_postgres_semantic_layer_credential (Resource)


Postgres credential resource. This resource is composed of a Postgres credential and a Semantic Layer configuration. It is used to create a Postgres credential for the Semantic Layer.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "dbtcloud_postgres_semantic_layer_credential" "test_postgres_semantic_layer_credential" {
  configuration = {
    project_id = var.project_id
	name = "Postgres SL Credential"
	adapter_version = "postgres_v0"
  }
  credential = {
  	project_id = var.project_id
	username = var.username
    password = var.password
    semantic_layer_credential = true
  }
  
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `configuration` (Attributes) Semantic Layer credential configuration details. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--configuration))
- `credential` (Attributes) Postgres credential details, but used in the context of the Semantic Layer. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--credential))

### Read-Only

- `id` (Number) The ID of the credential

<a id="nestedatt--configuration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `configuration`

Required:

- `adapter_version` (String) The adapter version
- `name` (String) The name of the configuration
- `project_id` (Number) The ID of the project


<a id="nestedatt--credential"></a>
### Nested Schema for `credential`

Required:

- `project_id` (Number) Project ID to create the Postgres/Redshift/AlloyDB credential in.
- `username` (String) Username for Postgres/Redshift/AlloyDB

Optional:

- `default_schema` (String) Default schema name. Optional only when semantic_layer_credential is set to true; otherwise, this field is required.
- `is_active` (Boolean) Whether the Postgres/Redshift/AlloyDB credential is active
- `num_threads` (Number) Number of threads to use (required for Redshift)
- `password` (String, Sensitive) Password for Postgres/Redshift/AlloyDB
- `semantic_layer_credential` (Boolean) This field indicates that the credential is used as part of the Semantic Layer configuration. It is used to create a Postgres credential for the Semantic Layer.
- `target_name` (String) Default schema name
- `type` (String) Type of connection. One of (postgres/redshift). Use postgres for alloydb connections. Optional only when semantic_layer_credential is set to true; otherwise, this field is required.

Read-Only:

- `credential_id` (Number) The system Postgres/Redshift/AlloyDB credential ID.
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource. Contains the project ID and the credential ID.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# using import blocks (requires Terraform >= 1.5)
import {
  to = dbtcloud_postgres_semantic_layer_credential.example
  id = "credential_id"
}

import {
  to = dbtcloud_postgres_semantic_layer_credential.example
  id = "12345"
}

# using the older import command
terraform import dbtcloud_postgres_semantic_layer_credential.example "credential_id"
terraform import dbtcloud_postgres_semantic_layer_credential.example 12345
```
