---
page_title: "dbtcloud_redshift_semantic_layer_credential Resource - dbtcloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Redshift credential resource. This resource is composed of a Redshift credential and a Semantic Layer configuration. It is used to create a Redshift credential for the Semantic Layer.
---

# dbtcloud_redshift_semantic_layer_credential (Resource)


Redshift credential resource. This resource is composed of a Redshift credential and a Semantic Layer configuration. It is used to create a Redshift credential for the Semantic Layer.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `configuration` (Attributes) Semantic Layer credential configuration details. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--configuration))
- `credential` (Attributes) Redshift credential details, but used in the context of the Semantic Layer. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--credential))

### Read-Only

- `id` (Number) The ID of the credential

<a id="nestedatt--configuration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `configuration`

Required:

- `adapter_version` (String) The adapter version
- `name` (String) The name of the configuration
- `project_id` (Number) The ID of the project


<a id="nestedatt--credential"></a>
### Nested Schema for `credential`

Required:

- `default_schema` (String) Default schema name
- `num_threads` (Number) Number of threads to use
- `project_id` (Number) Project ID to create the Redshift credential in

Optional:

- `is_active` (Boolean) Whether the Redshift credential is active
- `password` (String, Sensitive) The password for the Redshift account
- `username` (String) The username for the Redshift account.

Read-Only:

- `credential_id` (Number) The internal credential ID
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource. Contains the project ID and the credential ID.
