---
page_title: "dbtcloud_snowflake_semantic_layer_credential Resource - dbtcloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Snowflake credential resource. This resource is composed of a Snowflake credential and a Semantic Layer configuration. It is used to create a Snowflake credential for the Semantic Layer.
---

# dbtcloud_snowflake_semantic_layer_credential (Resource)


Snowflake credential resource. This resource is composed of a Snowflake credential and a Semantic Layer configuration. It is used to create a Snowflake credential for the Semantic Layer.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `configuration` (Attributes) Semantic Layer credenttial configuration details. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--configuration))
- `credential` (Attributes) Snowflake credential details, but used in the context of the Semantic Layer. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--credential))

### Read-Only

- `id` (Number) The ID of the credential

<a id="nestedatt--configuration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `configuration`

Required:

- `adapter_version` (String) The adapter version
- `name` (String) The name of the configuration
- `project_id` (Number) The ID of the project


<a id="nestedatt--credential"></a>
### Nested Schema for `credential`

Required:

- `auth_type` (String) The type of Snowflake credential ('password' or 'keypair')
- `num_threads` (Number) Number of threads to use
- `project_id` (Number) Project ID to create the Snowflake credential in

Optional:

- `database` (String) The catalog to connect use
- `is_active` (Boolean) Whether the Snowflake credential is active
- `password` (String, Sensitive) The password for the Snowflake account
- `private_key` (String, Sensitive) The private key for the Snowflake account
- `private_key_passphrase` (String, Sensitive) The passphrase for the private key
- `role` (String) The role to assume
- `schema` (String) The schema where to create models. This is an optional field ONLY if the credential is used for Semantic Layer configuration, otherwise it is required.
- `semantic_layer_credential` (Boolean) This field indicates that the credential is used as part of the Semantic Layer configuration. It is used to create a Snowflake credential for the Semantic Layer.
- `user` (String) The username for the Snowflake account. This is an optional field ONLY if the credential is used for Semantic Layer configuration, otherwise it is required.
- `warehouse` (String) The warehouse to use

Read-Only:

- `credential_id` (Number) The internal credential ID
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource. Contains the project ID and the credential ID.
