---
page_title: "dbtcloud_snowflake_credential Resource - dbtcloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Snowflake credential resource. This resource is used both as a stand-alone credential, but also as part of the Semantic Layer credential definition for Snowflake.
---

# dbtcloud_snowflake_credential (Resource)


Snowflake credential resource. This resource is used both as a stand-alone credential, but also as part of the Semantic Layer credential definition for Snowflake.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "dbtcloud_snowflake_credential" "prod_credential" {
  project_id  = dbtcloud_project.dbt_project.id
  auth_type   = "password"
  num_threads = 16
  schema      = "SCHEMA"
  user        = "user"
  password    = "password"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `auth_type` (String) The type of Snowflake credential ('password' or 'keypair')
- `num_threads` (Number) Number of threads to use
- `project_id` (Number) Project ID to create the Snowflake credential in

### Optional

- `database` (String) The catalog to connect use
- `is_active` (Boolean) Whether the Snowflake credential is active
- `password` (String, Sensitive) The password for the Snowflake account
- `private_key` (String, Sensitive) The private key for the Snowflake account
- `private_key_passphrase` (String, Sensitive) The passphrase for the private key
- `role` (String) The role to assume
- `schema` (String) The schema where to create models. This is an optional field ONLY if the credential is used for Semantic Layer configuration, otherwise it is required.
- `semantic_layer_credential` (Boolean) This field indicates that the credential is used as part of the Semantic Layer configuration. It is used to create a Snowflake credential for the Semantic Layer.
- `user` (String) The username for the Snowflake account. This is an optional field ONLY if the credential is used for Semantic Layer configuration, otherwise it is required.
- `warehouse` (String) The warehouse to use

### Read-Only

- `credential_id` (Number) The internal credential ID
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource. Contains the project ID and the credential ID.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# using  import blocks (requires Terraform >= 1.5)
import {
  to = dbtcloud_snowflake_credential.prod_snowflake_credential
  id = "project_id:credential_id"
}

import {
  to = dbtcloud_snowflake_credential.prod_snowflake_credential
  id = "12345:6789"
}

# using the older import command
terraform import dbtcloud_snowflake_credential.prod_snowflake_credential "project_id:credential_id"
terraform import dbtcloud_snowflake_credential.prod_snowflake_credential 12345:6789
```
